# 0x02. C - Functions, nested loops

## Functions
In programming, functions are self-contained blocks of code that perform a specific task. They allow you to break down a program into smaller, more manageable parts. Functions can be thought of as subprograms that can be called from other parts of the program.


## Nested loops
Nested loops are loops that are placed inside another loop. They are used when you need to perform repetitive actions in a structured and controlled manner. The outer loop controls the execution of the inner loop, and the inner loop completes all its iterations for each iteration of the outer loop

**Functions and nested loops are powerful concepts in programming that allow for code organization, reusability, and efficient execution of repetitive tasks.**

## Learning Objectives
At the end of this project, you are expected to be able to explain to anyone, without the help of Google:

### General

 - What are nested loops and how to use them
 - What is a function and how do you use functions
 - What is the difference between a declaration and a definition of a function
 - What is a prototype
 - Scope of variables
 - What are the `gcc` flags `-Wall -Werror -pedantic -Wextra -std=gnu89`
 - What are header files and how to to use them with `#include`

## Requirements

### General
 - Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`
 - All your files will be compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using `gcc`, using the options `-Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89`
 - All your files should end with a new line
 - A `README.md` file, at the root of the folder of the project is mandatory
 - Your code should use the `Betty` style. It will be checked using betty-style.pl and betty-doc.pl
 - You are not allowed to use global variables
 - No more than 5 functions per file
 - You are not allowed to use the standard library. Any use of functions like `printf`, `puts`, etc… is forbidden
 - You are allowed to use `_putchar`
 - The prototypes of all your functions and the prototype of the function `_putchar` should be included in your header file called `main.h`

## Tasks

**Task 0 - _putchar**
Write a program that prints `_putchar`, followed by a new line.

**Task 1 - I sometimes suffer from insomnia. And when I can't fall asleep, I play what I call the alphabet game**
Write a function that prints the alphabet, in lowercase, followed by a new line.

**Task 2 - 10 x alphabet**
Write a function that prints 10 times the alphabet, in lowercase, followed by a new line.

**Task 3 - islower**
Write a function that checks for lowercase character.

**Task 4 - isalpha**
Write a function that checks for alphabetic character.

**Task 5 - Sign**
Write a function that prints the sign of a number.

**Task 6 - There is no such thing as absolute value in this world. You can only estimate what a thing is worth to you**
Write a function that computes the absolute value of an integer.

**Task 7 - There are only 3 colors, 10 digits, and 7 notes; it's what we do with them that's important**
Write a function that prints the last digit of a number.

**Task 8 - I'm federal agent Jack Bauer, and today is the longest day of my life**
Write a function that prints every minute of the day of Jack Bauer, starting from 00:00 to 23:59.

**Task 9 -  Learn your times table**
Write a function that prints the 9 times table, starting with 0.

**Task 10 - a + b**
Write a function that adds two integers and returns the result.

**Task 11 -  98 Battery Street, the OG**
Write a function that prints all natural numbers from `n` to `98`, followed by a new line.

**Task 12 - The World looks like a multiplication-table, or a mathematical equation, which, turn it how you will, balances itself**
Write a function that prints the `n` times table, starting with 0.

**Task 13 - . Nature made the natural numbers; All else is the work of women**
If we list all the natural numbers below `10` that are multiples of `3` or `5`, we get `3`, `5`, `6` and `9`. The sum of these multiples is `23`. Write a program that computes and prints the sum of all the multiples of `3` or `5` below `1024` (excluded), followed by a new line.

**Task 14 - In computer class, the first assignment was to write a program to print the first 100 Fibonacci numbers. Instead, I wrote a program that would steal passwords of students. My teacher gave me an A**
Write a program that prints the first 50 Fibonacci numbers, starting with `1` and `2`, followed by a new line.

**Task 15 - Even Liber Abbaci**
Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with `1` and `2`, the first 10 terms will be: `1`, `2`, `3`, `5`, `8`, `13`, `21`, `34`, `55`, `89`. By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed 4,000,000, write a program that finds and prints the sum of the even-valued terms, followed by a new line.

**Task 16 - In computer class, the first assignment was to write a program to print the first 100 Fibonacci numbers. Instead, I wrote a program that would steal passwords of students. My teacher gave me an A+**
Write a program that finds and prints the first 98 Fibonacci numbers, starting with `1` and `2`, followed by a new line.

## Reference
## Resources
 - [Nested while loops](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z3iGeQ1gIss)
 - [C - Functions](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/cprogramming/c_functions.htm)
 - [Learning to Program in C](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qMlnFwYdqIw)(Part 06) (stop at 14:00)
 - [What is the purpose of a function prototype?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-the-purpose-of-a-function-prototype/)
 - [C - Header Files](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cprogramming/c_header_files.htm) (stop before the “Once-Only Headers” paragraph)






**Author - Julien Barbuer**
